So a number of different
approaches have emerged to
classifying insurtech firms based
on how the industry
itself is organized.
I'm going to talk
about two of them;
one originating from
the Milken Institute,
another originating
from Capgemini
which is a well-known
consulting firm.
Traditional view separates
the insurtech industry
into full-stack agent and
brokerage components.
Whereas the nuance view
which includes
multiple sub-segments
puts them into
three categories carriers which
is isomorphic to
full-stack providers,
and then more subtly
enablers and distributors,
which are not exactly
the same thing as agents and
brokers but are a kind
of rotation of them.
The latter model allows
a significantly greater
level of subtlety.
The traditional view of
full-stack insurance
agents and brokers
classifies insurtech firms first
into platforms that
actually do underwriting.
In other words, they make
the risk-taking decision
and then assume the risk,
or perhaps could sell it off
to or in the case
of an insurance company
to a reinsurance.
But in most cases manages
from beginning to
end the insurance
prospect gathering function,
the underwriting,
the risk taking,
then the policy maintenance,
and claims process.
The agent component of
the industry reflect platforms
or groups or companies
that act on behalf of a carrier
essentially extending
the carrier in the form of
client facing activity.
Brokers specifically
provide customers
with policies both by
traditional carriers
and insurtech platforms
that may be in the context
of being paid a commission,
or maybe narrowing or
broadening of a particular
area of insurance.
Those brokerage
platforms could be for
example online and short
tech approaches to
bring the traditional carriers to
a conversation or to a customer
decision-making point,
or it could include
both traditional and
insurtech providers or it
could be only focused on
technologically enabled
insurtech platforms,
allowing or providing
various sorting
algorithms to provide
customization or product or
cost competition or
comparisons to clients.
The simple classification.
It asks whether a given firm
is a full insurance company,
if it is we'll stop.
If it is partnered
with a given or multiple
insurance companies,
if it's an agent stop or
if it's more than one,
then it's a broker.
Again a more nuanced view
categorizes elements of
the insurance chain
by where they stand
relative to distribution
as full carriers,
distributors, or
enablers which can
interact with full carries
and distributors
at various points.
Full carriers as in the Milken
model could be digital.
Or they could also be
P2P or micro insurers,
where segmenting the market is
inherent in the definition
of the business model
of the company.
Segmentation can
also be with respect
to customization of the product
providing on-demand
insurance services
as opposed to constant
insurance services.
Distributors could be online
or open architecture
marketplaces.
They could be highly
customized with respect
to customer demand
and characteristics,
they could be digital
brokers themselves,
or they could be B2B.
Finally, enablers
could integrate into
full carry or distributor
activities in the way
they augment or improve
or addressed
front office solutions,
management of policies or claims,
or help the full carries
or distributors do
their jobs better,
by way of augmenting or
harnessing the value of data,
or specifics of technologies,
drones for example as
we mentioned earlier.
In other words, they're
either augmentative
or disruptive with respect to
the current distribution
value chain
or a distribution
value chain itself.
It's really three-dimensions
if you think about it.
When looking at the three
insurtech platform types
dis-aggregate gated
by product offering,
Milken found a significant
amount of dispersion.
For example, in the auto
health or life areas,
the brokerage part of
the FinTech platform space
was more popular.
At least is more prevalent
in the world today.
However when we look
at personal liability,
business insurance
services related
to financial planning
and retirement,
endowment retirement and pension,
we don't see the brokerage model
being as prevalent.
Full-stack of course,
simply by the numbers,
you might not expect to be as
prevalent because
of its large scale.
However, it is important to
notice that except for
the financial planning area,
Milken found that
the full stack platform providers
were indeed everywhere.
By way of prevalence again
in the traditional areas,
auto, health,
and life along with
home rental insurance
title insurance and so on,
the brokerage model,
the client-facing model
is where much
of the industry has been
focusing at least if you
look at the number of
product offerings.
One issue with the three
platform description
of the industry is that
a significant number
of insurtech companies are really
technology solution
providers focusing
on at least three sub areas.
First human resources
and benefits solutions,
second data solutions,
and third infrastructure
solutions.
Those HR focused sub-segments
effectively focus
on applying technology to
help firms manage human capital
more efficiently and
cost effectively.
Those focusing on
data solutions are
providing specialization
in collections
and aggregating
vast data in order to
support insurance or
reinsurance carriers
and others to underwrite
risk or evaluate risk.
Finally, infrastructure
providers focusing
on processing things
more efficiently,
and that can range from claims
to underwriting to
client-facing activities,
providing application
programming interfaces or APIs,
supporting integration
or customization,
both of products and services.
As of a recent market to market,
the number of providers in
the infrastructure and
human resources areas
dominated the margin,
the number of
data solution providers.
Our insurtech has induced
a rapid expansion of
the type of full
carriers that exist.
Capgemini identified
a number of examples of
the different kinds of
insurtech firms that we
now see in the industry,
in a very interesting way.
For example, consider
now the existence
of digital carriers which
follow traditional models,
but are conducted
partially or totally
online or using mobile
technology and app technology.
Not just in US, Zhong Yan does
the same thing for
property in China.
P2P insurance or
community-based insurance
where members of
an exchange or a pool
put their money
together to apply or to
distribute group coverage.
Micro-insurance like the example
below which we'll talk more
about in just a second,
segmenting the market focusing
on those who are closer to
the base of the pyramid.
On-demand activities.
Buying insurance as
opposed to every day,
just on the days when you need
them or usage-based in short.
When you're engaged only in
an activity as opposed to
along the dimension of time,
providing insurance just
when you're engaged in
the risky activity that
the insurance provides to.
All of these examples are made
possible by the application
of technology in
one way or the other.
Either through mobilization,
the existence of
web-based solutions,
or based on data that
can be analyzed in
real time that are
finally dis-aggregated.
Very challenging to do
without the application
of insurtech technology.
Many are familiar with
the distribution methodology
of a marketplace online,
essentially a site that allows
individuals or those who
are signing up or using the
services to compare policies,
products pricing across
potential providers.
It's more of something
that you sign up for.
It's a pull technology.
A push technology or
personal financial
assistant technology
allows customers in
a highly customized format
to manage policies,
to receive recommendations on
coverage on plans,
on characteristics,
so that in a one-stop setting,
the customer can optimize
their coverage and
change it if the need arises.
Digital brokers allow
direct comparisons
and in some cases purchasing of
policies, and then distribution,
distributors typically
focused on commercial arenas,
allow very technical comparisons
for businesses that
have different needs.
Finally, value-adding
intermediaries which
are perhaps some of
the newest arrivals in
insurtech are in
a push technology using
techniques including
social media platforms
to proactively connect
potential customers who are
similar in their
purchasing potential,
their perspectives on insurance,
and their insurance
needs to help them
pull their payments or to
negotiate with carriers.
Enablers addressed
the entire value chain from
traditional carrier
activity through
new arrival and
insurtech carriers.
Either helping improve processes
and solutions in
the front office,
in policy and plan management,
in claims management, in
connecting data external as
well as internal data
for carriers,
or applying external
technology like drones
and digital picture capture
and integrity verification.
Enabling if you will,
the traditional and
new activities of
carriers and those along
the distribution value chain.
So as you can see,
wherever we look in
the distribution chain
and whether it's
for full or stack,
carriers, distributors
or enablers,
insurtech is rapidly
infiltrating,
supporting expanding
ultimately for
the betterment of
the industry as well
as the policy owner and
the consumer,
the customer experience.
It's no surprise
then that we see how
rapidly the value of
the industry is expanding.
That's what we'll
talk about next.